> In progress

# <p align='center'> Endorsed Policies </p> 

## <p align='center'> In Order of Priority </p> 

<p align='center'> $\color{green}\mathrm{by}$ $\color{green}\mathrm{Sam}$ $\color{green}\mathrm{Lerman}$ </p> 

# Less Conventional Ones

## Health Insurers, Including Medicaid and Medicare, Should Pay for Organic Type Food

> Debit card.

## 32 Hour Work Week 

> By 2032.

## Online Voting Portal 

> In progress editing.

A day or two after Biden announced dropping out, Kamala was already presumed to be the replacement nominee. Within those 2 days, I described the method for how to implement a safe online voting portal.

> I proposed putting the election (DNC coronation, now that Biden has dropped out) on the internet and here was a valid criticism:
> 
> "While certainly possibly, you are talking about many months of time and millions of dollars to define, design, develop, thoroughly test and implement a system like this."
Here is how I replied:
> 
> "The DNC coronation is a good testing ground, even for a subpar prototype, since the current trajectory for them is no election at all, and a coronation by superdelegates." [Correction: Delegates]
> 
> Then I replied again with more details about the gradual roll out, not just for the DNC coronation but for future elections as well:
> 
> "It is not that hard to build a website that people log in to through social security numbers that cross-checks if they’re a registered democrat, as a temporary solution to allow democracy in this DNC coronation, instead of an oligarchical situation where somebody inherits 50% of our presidential election choice by a monarchal-type inheritance without any democratic vote. And that prototype can be gradually improved, and (the following are all my original ideas/proposals) decentralized so that it can be hosted on local district servers rather than in any one centralized server that could be hacked, but still under the incredibly-secure encryption/decryption information transaction security protocols that our current global economy, including government programs, would crash if they were hackable or could be realistically compromised or weren’t confidential. Plus, all of that code and the hardware blueprints should be required to be fully open-source and version-controlled such as on GitHub so that the public, not just specialized auditors, can inspect each district’s setup. In the ideal, the code should be programmed as simple as possible so that it can be verified by the public (at least other coders), which of course requires some talented coding."
> 
> So... using the best of the safety and security technology, specifically encryption/decryption information transaction protocols, that banks use, that Venmo uses, that PayPal uses, that Robinhood uses, that TurboTax uses, that Amazon uses, that Apple Wallet uses, that all of those major financial entities use, but decentralized, open-source, version-controlled, and auditable.
>
> To start with (for the DNC coronation), all of that isn't necessary.
> 
> A simple centralized website with log in via social security number that cross-checks Democrat registration can be used as the temporary solution.
>
> In Estonia, internet voting increased voter turnout by 5 - 15 percentage points. They've had success with such a system for about 19 years thus far, and use a much less secure system than what I'm proposing. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Electronic_voting_in_Estonia
>
> Progressives benefit more from higher voter turnout and reduced voting obstruction than conservatives.
>
> And nobody benefits from superdelegates coronating somebody as the democratic nominee without an election.
>
> I support rank choice voting, and a streamlined, simplified, modern voting portal, especially now in a situation when all of our votes — yours and my — are obstructed as the DNC is on track to tell us who to vote for without any election.
>
> Doing that legitimizing-vote via the internet through as secure a system as possible — one that could be securely implemented in an actual election — would be a great step also towards modernizing the voting process, without any downsides since at the very most at least as far as the DNC is legally required to follow, the vote would informally legitimize or delegitimize a DNC selection, and, if the vote was used as basis for the coronation, would make the coronation more democratic. However, I doubt Kamala Harris would win such a vote. Perhaps, if he ran, Bernie would then win that vote in a landslide.

> Then after a legitimizing prototype, an ideal internet voting system can be gradually developed. Decentralized, locally hosted versions — whose software code and hardware blueprints are required to be open-source and version-controlled such as on GitHub for each district’s setup, so that they can be audited not just by specialized auditors, but by the public (at least other coders) — with software exemplified by a standardized version that’s implemented with talented coding to be simple for general coders to follow the logic of and inspect — hosted locally respective to each district, on each district’s servers, and (as with the current system) primarily regulated by each district — is a novel idea, can be gradually developed, and is more secure than the centralized system that is successfully used in Estonia. The same encryption/decryption information transaction protocols that banks, Robinhood, Apple Wallet, etc. use, are safe, secure, and confidential, since our entire global economy depends on them, but to guarantee anonymity in addition to confidentiality is made realistic via decentralizing, open-sourcing, and version-controlling, which, combined with audits, guarantees anonymity at least as much as the current system (if not more due to the open-sourcing, which helps both auditing and usually security). There are no downsides, and many upsides. Internet voting increased voter turnout by 5 - 15 percentage points in Estonia. Higher voter turnout and reduced voting obstruction generally benefit democratic processes, in particular the election of progressive candidates. Such a system can also make referendums and smaller votes much easier. It can also help in the process of transitioning to rank choice voting, and making that intuitive. And none of this is immediately necessary for the DNC coronation, which can suffice with a basic centralized website prototype that can be implemented quickly, to legitimize the DNC selection more democratically, with login via social security number, Democrat registration automatically cross-checkable based on social security number, and residencies (such as state-respective restrictions) associated via April tax information. Such a prototype then can serve as a basis for the gradual development of a modernized voting system.

> Still writing this. Editing in progress.

To do: Edit this in terms of analogy, first the mail-in ballot version, then the online voting portal version, then again for the next analogous pair, and so on:

During Covid, [46% of American voters voted by absentee or mail-in ballot](https://www.pewresearch.org/politics/2020/11/20/the-voting-experience-in-2020/).
- People are afraid of online voting through electromagnetic waves and wires, but not mail-in voting through postal delivery workers. The difference is, wave modulations and wire transmissions can be corrupted by cable providers, cell services, WiFi routers, modems, and so on, but since people do their banking activity through the same means, and much of the world’s global economy depends on their integrity, the risk, compared to postal delivery workers, is not higher, though should be cautioned due to the increased centralization of those networking services, but whose deployment is done by cable workers and should in any case be audited, if it’s not already. Ideally, the system would itself follow the guidelines specified for data storage below. Besides that, the similarities can be learned from more than the differences. Mail-in ballots are decentralized and can be audited. Thus, any online voting election portal should be hosted independently in each municipality/district, on their own on-location server, which can be just a regular new computer, as long as the computer is trusted at least as much as the polling location where the mail is delivered. To trust the computer only requires that it not have any initial malware upon purchase, which most people, including polling locations with electronic voting, make that trust. The computer should be factory-reset after each election. Besides decentralized hosting, my other novel proposal is for auditing. The blueprints to all technologies involved should be open-sourced and version-controlled, publicly, including blueprints for the hardware, not just code for the software. That way they can be checked line for line and audited. This makes it actually much more auditable than the current system. "Version-controlled" means, as on this website, GitHub, each committed edit can be logged — including a platform without backdating or deleting — and, as in this "repo" (folder of files), public; and to make this process generally auditable by the average person, great care has to be put into designing the code to be extremely simple, as easily readable and learnable and understandable by programmers as possible, so that the world-over can audit each municipality’s/district’s changes. Good design principles are more than possible, but require discrimination and taste by people about whose code is simpler, and computer scientists the world over should have extreme voice in making their critiques and suggestions, such as through Issues and Push Requests. Changes must be tested in mock elections first, and each district/municipality would have to accept them, so they have to be reviewed by enough of the public and experts, and where Issues can be discussed. GitHub should be used as the version-control platform since it’s the most familiar to most people, but more than one should be used, with changes automatically propagating to the other ones, including a new government-owned one designed for this purpose. Due to the auditability, this will converge to the most secure and confidential system possible, more so than mail-in. Finally, is data storage, where voters might not trust what happens to the "mailed in ballots" of 0s and 1s. Are they stored forever on a hard drive? Are they purged? Each municipality/district should have their own decentralized data storage, for which the blueprints, changes, and software must be open-sourced. Encryption schemes can be RSA, same as banks and what major financial services use, and which aren’t hard to implement. The programming language can safely be Python, but other CS people can contest that. The interface, via the (extremely-auditable) software, can just report the number/tally and provide no access to the encrypted data to anybody, ever. The data should be purged after some time after the election. This can be done by literally incinerating the hard drives (maybe joking), or, with as much trust as to those who purge the mail-in ballots, via people just pressing a button, perhaps a different one separated in multiple locations, and entering a key. To make it auditable, like the software, the data hardware blueprints should be the same, or selected from a finite number of sufficiently popular hardware blueprints and software code bases, all following these same guidelines, in every municipality/district. All of this is great, but what about hacking? On the server side, the chance is low. Due to decentralized hosting, the risk is lower than that of the existing system, since a violent militia would be needed to take over the decentralized machines, while open-sourcing ultimately makes them extremely safe from hacking. On the user-side, government ID is required, including social security number and password, and any information one entrusts for mail-in ballots. In fact, there is no difference in security on the user side over mail-in ballots, aside from the risk of one’s cable company or cell provider being untrustworthy, the solution to which would ideally be to require the same hardware and software open-sourcing and auditing guidelines for them. Online voting can be made safer than mail-in voting. Anybody should be able to request a government-issued cellphone mailed to them from which they can press a button and require the vote to come from that cellphone, or reuse one from a previous year. Otherwise, reporting is possible, but cannot be attended to anymore than that of the current system. [33 states](https://www.eballot.com/blog/these-states-allow-online-voting-for-their-citizens-is-your-state-one-of-them) in the US have already implemented some form of online voting, weaker than the system I’ve proposed. The country of Estonia has had great success since 2005 with online voting, also using a system weaker than what I’ve described. Coercion laws still apply. 

## Universal Basic Jobs

> Uncoerced. Alongside free market. Work that perhaps the free market does not find value in, like going to school, infrastructure and reconstruction, creating content, organic community gardens, training programs, teaching, rebuilding schools, summer camps.

## Tech Monopoly Partial Democratization Processes, or Busting

> This would take higher priority if "Democratization" wasn't such a radical idea.
